# Basic Questions

## Question 1: Process vs thread?

No answer provided yet.

## Question 2: How should a thread pool be sized for CPU-bound vs I/O-bound work?

No answer provided yet.

## Question 3: What problem do virtual threads solve?

No answer provided yet.

## Question 4: What information does a thread dump provide, and how do you capture one?

No answer provided yet.

## Question 5: What is Multi-Threading

Executing several threads simultenously such concept is called multi-threading.
In multi-threading only 10% of work must be done by a programmer and 90% work will be done by JAVA API.
The main important application area of multi-threading are.
1)To develop multimedia graphics
2)To develop animation
3)To develop video games
Ways to start a thread in java
We can start or create or instantiate a thread in two ways.
1)By extending Thread class
2)By implementing Runnable interface
Life cycle of a thread
Once if we create a thread object then our thread will be in new/born state.
Once if we call t.start() method then our thread will goes to ready/runnable state.
If thread schedular allocates the CPU then our thread will enters to running state.
Once the run() method execution is completed then our thread will goes to dead state.

## Question 6: What is Thread priority?

In java, every thread has a priority automatically generated by JVM or explicitly provided by the programmer.
The valid range for thread priority is 1 to 10.1 is a least priority and 10 is a highest priority.
Thread class defines following standard constants as thread priorities.
ex:
Thread.MAX_PRIORITY -- 10
Thread.NORM_PRIORITY -- 5
Thread.MIN_PRIORITY -- 1

## Question 7: What is Daemon Thread?

Deamon thread is a service provide thread which provides service to user threads.
The life of deamon thread is same as user threads. Once threads executed deamon thread will terminate automatically.
There are many daemon thread are running in our system.
ex: Garbage collector , Finalizer and etc.
To start a deamon thread we need to use setDaemon(true) method.
To check a thread is a daemon or not we need to use isDaemon() method.
Problems without synchronization:
If we won't have synchronization then we will face following problems.
1) Thread interference.
2) Data inconsistency problem.

## Question 8: What are the Drawbacks of multithreading?

1)DeadLock
2)Thread Starvation

1)Functional Interface
An interface that contains exactly one abstract method is known as functional interface.
ex:
Runnable -> run()
Comparable -> compareTo()
ActionListener -> actionPerformed()
It can have any number of default and static methods.
Function interface is also known as Single Abstract Method Interface or SAM interface.
It is a new feature in java which helps in to achieve functional programming .
ex:
a=f1(){}
f1(f2(){}){}
@FunctionalInterface is a annotation which is used to declare functional interface and it is optional.
2)Lamda Expression
Lamda Expression introduced in java 1.8v.
Lamda Expression is used to enable functional programming.
It is used to concise the code (To reduce the code).
Lamda Expression can be used when we have functional interface.
Lamda expression considered as a method not a class.
Lamda expression does not support modifier,return type and method name.
3)Stream API
If we want to process the objects from Collections then we need to use Stream API.
Stream is an interface which is present in java.util.stream package.
Stream is use to perform bulk operations on Collections.
We can create Stream object as follow.
Syntax:
Stream s=c.stream();

## Question 9: How many statements are there in JDBC?

We have three statements in jdbc.
1)Simple Statement
2)PreparedStatement
3)CallableStatement

